Add versioning policy. (#2519)
sigstore/cosign: VERSIONING.md

  an awkward spot and would take a fair bit of work/branch management to push a
  minor version release; realistically, the next release will be v2 even if we
  have bug fixes we could push before then.

## API support for old Cosign versions

Starting with Cosign CLI v2, the Sigstore infrastructure should support old
Cosign versions for one year past release, and six months past the availability
of a suitable replacement. Any breakage here will be considered a bug and should
be rolled back or fixed.

We will run end-to-end tests for all prior supported minor versions.

## Cosign API

The Cosign API is versioned independently of the Cosign CLI. Version numbers are
`MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. For now, there are **no stability guarantees**:

* The library will undergo a serious refactor to make using it much
  safer/easier.
* Most callers (anybody not dealing with OCI registries/containers) will want
  [sigstore-go][] instead.
* At a future major version, the library will follow semantic versioning (and
  this policy will be updated).
* After that point, only code in pkg/ will be covered by semver; Cosign will
  follow semver strictly.

>   * Most functionality will be in `internal/` or `cmd/` by default, and exposing it

Reviewer: Question: @znewman01 Shouldn't `cmd` be focused on providing the CLI commands without exposing much functionality ? I was expecting to find here `internal/` and `pkg/`.

Author: That was  awkward wording. From the perspective of Go API consumers, the "public interface" is everything *except* `internal/` and `cmd/` (mostly `pkg/`). My point is that Go API users should not rely on `cmd/`.

I've reworded to:

>  Functionality should be private (either language-private or in a "private"
>  package like `internal/` or `cmd/`) by default, and exposing it publicly
>  will be a deliberate choice.

Hopefully that's clearer.

# Cosign Versioning Policy

This is the versioning policy regarding the stability of Cosign, both the API and CLI.

**tl;dr (CLI):** semver for specific behaviors, but with deprecations.

**tl;dr (API):** no guarantees at all (for now).

Principles:

> - Provide well-versioned, very reliable things that people can write

Reviewer 2: things?

Author: lol, "tools/libraries"

  scripts/code against.
- Provide places for experimentation and rapid-development, not covered under
  versioning guarantees.
- Be explicit about what is and isn’t covered.
- Better to promise a weaker guarantee and stick to it consistently than to be
  vague about what is/isn’t covered and technically comply, or not comply at
  all.

## Cosign CLI

The Cosign CLI’s version numbers are of the form `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, but it is

> explicitly not covered by [semantic versioning][] guarantees. Instead, you

Reviewer 2: what `[semantic versioning]` supposed to be a link to something?

Author: yeah forgot the link oops

should interpret version numbers as follows:

> **Major version increases.** These are "large changes:" you should expect to

Reviewer 2: why is there a colon after large changes? `large changes:`

need to rewrite scripts after these. There are no compatibility guarantees about
the behavior or shape of the CLI. These should be infrequent and correspond to
big improvements in the user experience.

**Minor version increases.** These are "small changes:" if you’ve been paying

> attention to and fixing deprecation warnings (see "Deprecation"), your scripts

Reviewer 2: you can link to "Deprecation" here with `#deprecation` I think?

Author: nice

should continue to work (provided they only depend on explicitly guaranteed
Cosign behavior; see "What's covered?").

**Patch version increases.** These are "bug fix" releases only.

> [semver]: https://semver.org

Reviewer 2: did you want this to be a link above? Why not just use inline links? (same question all over this doc)

Author: idk i like the footnote links

### What's covered?

Only behavior explicitly listed here is covered (to counter [Hyrum's
Law][hyrums-law]).

* Any documented behavior (i.e., behavior described in the output of `cosign -h`).

>   If the wording was ambiguous, the behavior may change as long as the

Reviewer 2: was -> is? I dunno, tense feels off

  * New fields may be added, but fields will not be removed.
* Additional conventions documented in [CLI.md](CLI.md).

What’s *not* covered?

* Output to standard error is *not* covered and may change at any time.
* If the Sigstore API changes, the output of Cosign may change.
* Fixes to security bugs (for instance, something invalid used to pass
  verification, but now it does not). However, "security features" should not
  break backwards-compatibility.
* Any "unstable" commands.

Violations of this are generally considered bugs; we will issue patch releases
for each affected minor version. In some (rare) cases, an exception may be made
with the approval of the Cosign maintainers as long as the decision results in
an update to this versioning policy.

[hyrums-law]: https://www.hyrumslaw.com/

### Unstable commands

It’s important to enable rapid iteration on the development of new Cosign
features while providing stability to users of more-mature features. As such,
the Cosign CLI will support the following release levels with corresponding
guarantees:

* **Experimental**: No guarantees. May change in a backwards-incompatible way or
  be removed at any time without warning.

> * Generally available (**GA**): follows the guidelines in this document.

Reviewer 2: I dunno if this last really matches this "header" of Unstable Commands?

Author: changed header to "feature stability"

by setting the environment variable `COSIGN_EXPERIMENTAL=1`.

### Supported versions

**Full support.** We fully support only the latest release of the Cosign CLI.

**Security support.** We will backport security fixes to all major versions
released in the past year. We may backport security fixes, depending on
severity, to all minor versions released in the last year. We may choose to
backport security "features" as well.

### Deprecation

Any behavior may be deprecated at any time with sufficient warning. For GA
features, that period is 6 months from the Cosign release in which the
deprecation was first announced; the first subsequent Cosign release should
remove that feature. A new major version voids all deprecation timeline
guarantees, and any deprecated behaviors can be removed at that time.

Deprecation requires:

* When users invoke the deprecated behavior, print a deprecation message to
  standard error.
  * The message should look something like:
    > WARNING: $BEHAVIOR is deprecated and will be removed in a Cosign release
    > soon after $DEPRECATION_DATE (see $GITHUB_ISSUE_LINK). Instead, please

>     > $ALTERNATIVE.

Reviewer 2: Feel like this should be a code block, not a quote?

  * If we can’t tell whether a user is using the deprecated behavior (for
    instance, if we’re going to remove a field), print the message every time.
  * There MAY be a way to turn off the message. In many cases, this will just be
    by using the alternative. Otherwise, we can consider adding a flag (which is
    now subject to a deprecation period of its own).
* A release note at the introduction of the deprecation, along with the removal
  of the behavior.
* Any documentation that refers to the deprecated behavior in the Cosign
  repository should have the same information as in the message.
  * Other documentation will be updated on a best-effort basis.

> For a list of currently deprecated behavior, search the codebase.

Reviewer 2: lulz "search the codebase"?

Author: This is actually a reasonable thing to do because we'll have a "deprecated behavior library" that all deprecated code imports. Added a note

# Cosign Versioning Policy

This is the versioning policy regarding the stability of Cosign, both the API and CLI.

**tl;dr (CLI):** semver for specific behaviors, but with deprecations.

**tl;dr (API):** no guarantees at all (for now).

Principles:

- Provide well-versioned, very reliable tools/libraries that people can write
  scripts/code against.
- Provide places for experimentation and rapid-development, not covered under
  versioning guarantees.
- Be explicit about what is and isn’t covered.

> - Better to promise a weaker guarantee and stick to it consistently than to be

Reviewer 3: `Better to promise a weaker guarantee and stick to it consistently`

? :p

Author: > ? :p

? :p

Not sure what the source of confusion is here. I meant to say something along the lines of "before, we had a stronger versioning guarantee but didn't actually follow it; I'd rather have a policy we intend to follow."

Is there a better way to word that?

  vague about what is/isn’t covered and technically comply, or not comply at
  all.

## Cosign CLI

The Cosign CLI’s version numbers are of the form `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, but it is

> explicitly not covered by [semantic versioning][semver] guarantees. Instead, you

Reviewer 3: As long as Cosign is going to cosplay as semver, it should be semver. If semver guarantees aren't going to be respected, then there should be an unambiguously (programmatically) different scheme.

Author: Not quite sure what you mean by "cosplay as semver." Where do you think the confusion will come from? The MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH scheme? IMO semver doesn't have a monopoly on that. Or just the fact that we have pretty-similar-but-not-quite-the-same guarantees?

I'd be open to other versioning schemes as long as they had he following features:

- support for big, all-compatibility-bets-are-off breaking version bumps
- version bumps corresponding to "typical" releases which can be breaking but only in accordance with a deprecation policy
- releases that will always be safe to upgrade to, and that we may backport fixes to

Seems like a 3-part scheme is pretty natural given those goals. We could try to do something with dates I guess? `v2.20230111` but then the date in a patch release if we're going to backport something is awkward. WDYT?

should interpret version numbers as follows:

**Major version increases.** These are "large changes." You should expect to
need to rewrite scripts after these. There are no compatibility guarantees about
the behavior or shape of the CLI. These should be infrequent and correspond to
big improvements in the user experience.

**Minor version increases.** These are "small changes." If you’ve been paying
attention to and fixing deprecation warnings (see
["Deprecation"](#deprecation)), your scripts should continue to work (provided
they only depend on explicitly guaranteed Cosign behavior; see "What's
covered?").

> **Patch version increases.** These are "bug fix" releases only.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Patch version increases.** These are "bug fix" releases, and should always be adopted.
```

Author: SGTM, added
